Gaius Julius Caesar[a] (12 or 13 July 100 BC – 15 March 44 BC) was a Roman general and statesman 
who was the dictator of the Roman Republic almost continuously from 49 BC until his assassination 
in 44 BC. A member of the First Triumvirate, he led the Roman armies through the Gallic Wars and 
defeated his political rival Pompey in Caesar’s civil war. He consolidated power and proclaimed 
himself dictator perpetuo (dictator for life) in 44 BC, which contributed to the political conditions 
that led to the collapse of the Roman Republic and the emergence of the Roman Empire. For his role in 
these events, he is regarded as one of the most influential historical figures.

In 60 BC, Caesar, Crassus, and Pompey formed the First Triumvirate, an informal political alliance that 
dominated Roman politics for several years. Their attempts to amass political power were opposed by many 
in the Senate, among them Cato the Younger with the private support of Cicero. Caesar rose to become one 
of the most powerful politicians in the Roman Republic through a string of military victories in the Gallic 
Wars, completed by 51 BC, which greatly extended Roman territory. During this time, he both invaded Britain and 
built a bridge across the river Rhine. These achievements and the support of his veteran army threatened to eclipse 
the standing of Pompey. The alliance between Caesar and Pompey slowly broke down and, by 50 BC, Pompey had realigned 
himself with the Senate. With his command expiring and the Gallic Wars largely concluded, the Senate ordered Caesar to 
step down from his military command and return to Rome. In early January 49 BC, Caesar openly defied the Senate by crossing 
the Rubicon and marching towards Rome at the head of an army. This began Caesar's civil war, which he won, leaving him in a 
position of near-unchallenged power and influence in 45 BC.

encrypted = ""decrypted = ""key = 3for char in encrypted:if char.isalpha():  # check if it's a letter
# shift the characterdecrypted += chr((ord(char) - ord('a') + key) % 26 + ord('a'))else:
decrypted += char  # keep non-letters the sameprint("Decrypted:", decrypted)